doc/standards/testStrategy/FullPageTest.md, before:

# Full page test

## Render test

```jsx
it('should render correctly', () => {
  const page = render(<Page />)

  expect(page).toMatchSnapshot()
})
```

If component is using timed function such as animation, snapshot will always differ, it can be worth controlling the time:

```jsx
it('should render correctly', async () => {
  jest.useFakeTimers('legacy')
  const page = render(<Page />)

  jest.advanceTimersByTime(1000)

  expect(page).toMatchSnapshot()
  jest.useRealTimers()
})
```

SVG & Lottie animations are mocked so snapshot can be more lisible. You can test their existence / non-existence by making queries on either their testID or the "mocked" text replacing the actual content of the SVGs / animations.

---

## Accessibility

Accessibility test should be only on **web** and on **pages** or **modals**

```jsx
describe('<YourPage/>', () => {
  describe('Accessibility', () => {
    it('should not have basic accessibility issues', async () => {
      const { container } = render(<YourPage />)
      const results = await checkAccessibilityFor(container)

      expect(results).toHaveNoViolations()
    })
  })
})
```

> 💡 It is possible to generate an accessible test model with the snippet (vscode) `a11y-test`

If you want to disable accessibility rules use the `enabled` from `rules` property

> ⚠️ For demonstration only, don't disable rules that need fixing.

```jsx
[...]
      const results = await checkAccessibilityFor(container, {
        rules: {
          'aria-allowed-role': { enabled: false },
        },
      })

      expect(results).toHaveNoViolations()
[...]
```

If you encounter an error with `duplicate-id-aria` this is due to the global uuid mock, we systematically mock `testUuidV4`
To correct this error it is necessary to mock uuid in your test file like this:

```jsx
const mockV4 = jest.fn()
jest.mock('uuid', () => ({
  v1: jest.fn(),
  v4: jest.fn(mockV4),
}))
```

And use `mockV4.mockReturnValueOnce('yourId')` for each uuid needed.

Commit message:

(BSR) docs(tests): update test strategy with render function part (#4591)

doc/standards/testStrategy/FullPageTest.md, after:

# Full page test

## Render test

```jsx
it('should render correctly', () => {
  const page = render(<Page />)

  expect(page).toMatchSnapshot()
})
```

If component is using timed function such as animation, snapshot will always differ, it can be worth controlling the time:

```jsx
it('should render correctly', async () => {
  jest.useFakeTimers('legacy')
  const page = render(<Page />)

  jest.advanceTimersByTime(1000)

  expect(page).toMatchSnapshot()
  jest.useRealTimers()
})
```

SVG & Lottie animations are mocked so snapshot can be more lisible. You can test their existence / non-existence by making queries on either their testID or the "mocked" text replacing the actual content of the SVGs / animations.

It can happen that the render function is heavy and repeats itself in each test (for example if it uses `reactQueryProviderHOC` and `msw`, or when you need to wrap your component). You can extract this function into the test file but it shouldn't be the default.
It is also important to keep this render function synchronous, asynchronous code should be kept for particular tests.

Example of a complex render function:

```jsx
export const renderOfferBody = (
  additionalProps: {
    sameCategorySimilarOffers?: SearchHit[]
    otherCategoriesSimilarOffers?: SearchHit[]
  } = {}
) =>
  render(
    // eslint-disable-next-line local-rules/no-react-query-provider-hoc
    reactQueryProviderHOC(
      <NetInfoWrapper>
        <OfferBody offerId={offerId} onScroll={onScroll} {...additionalProps} />
      </NetInfoWrapper>
    )
  )
```

---

## Accessibility

Accessibility test should be only on **web** and on **pages** or **modals**

```jsx
describe('<YourPage/>', () => {
  describe('Accessibility', () => {
    it('should not have basic accessibility issues', async () => {
      const { container } = render(<YourPage />)
      const results = await checkAccessibilityFor(container)

      expect(results).toHaveNoViolations()
    })
  })
})
```

> 💡 It is possible to generate an accessible test model with the snippet (vscode) `a11y-test`

If you want to disable accessibility rules use the `enabled` from `rules` property

> ⚠️ For demonstration only, don't disable rules that need fixing.

```jsx
[...]
      const results = await checkAccessibilityFor(container, {
        rules: {
          'aria-allowed-role': { enabled: false },
        },
      })

      expect(results).toHaveNoViolations()
[...]
```

If you encounter an error with `duplicate-id-aria` this is due to the global uuid mock, we systematically mock `testUuidV4`
To correct this error it is necessary to mock uuid in your test file like this:

```jsx
const mockV4 = jest.fn()
jest.mock('uuid', () => ({
  v1: jest.fn(),
  v4: jest.fn(mockV4),
}))
```

And use `mockV4.mockReturnValueOnce('yourId')` for each uuid needed.
