doc/deployment/deployment.md, before:

## ⚙️ Deployment process

See [notion documentation][1] for more information.

We use 3 environments for the mobile application: `testing` > `staging` > `production`.

There are two types of deployments: **soft** and **hard**:

- a **soft** deployment is for most of the time, when only the javascript code has changed
- a **hard** deployment is required if the native code has changed:
  - environment variable changed or new
  - new native library
  - new build step
  - ...

### Testing

You can review & download the **testing** apps on Appcenter for [iOS][2] & [Android][3] of using this [url][4].

#### ⚡️ Soft deploy (automatic)

Most of the time, when developing a feature, you probably didn't change the native code: if you changed only javascript code, the deployment to the testing application will be **automatic** on CircleCI (see `deploy-soft-testing` job).

Then the build is faster as only the javascript code is published. The download and installation of the modification will be automatic when you open the app.

##### Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>I don't see my changes on testing</summary>

If you don't see your changes, try to check if the codepush was correctly downloaded. To do so go to "CheatCodes", and click on the "check update" button.

3 possibilities:

- it displays "no update found": you are up-to-date
- it shows "New version available on AppCenter" you need to go to http://hyperurl.co/pc-testing
- it downloads the update and restart the app
</details>

#### Hard deploy (manual)

If I modified native code, I need to hard deploy:

- `yarn trigger:testing:deploy:patch`

This will bump the patch number, create a tag `testing/vX.X.X+1` and push it.
CircleCI will detect the tag and launch the lanes `deploy-android-testing-hard` & `deploy-ios-testing-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file).

### Staging (MES)

You can review & download the **staging** apps on AppCenter for [iOS][5] & [Android][6] of using this [url][7].

#### Hard deploy (once a week, manual)

When you want to deploy the current version of `master` in staging, you can run the following commands:

- `yarn trigger:staging:deploy`

This will bump the `minor` version, create a tag `vX.X+1.X` and push it.

- or `trigger:staging:deploy:patch`

This will bump the `patch` version, create a tag `patch/vX.X.X+1` and push it.
CircleCI will detect the tag `patch/vX.X.X` and launch the lanes `deploy-ios-staging-hard` & `deploy-android-staging-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file)

#### Patch staging with additionnal commits

Pull master to make sure you have all the commits you need to patch.
Checkout the tag you want to start from.

- `git checkout vX.X.X`
- list all commits you want to patch to your tag.
- run `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>` for all commits **in the order they were merged to `master`** to avoid conflicts.
- build and deploy the patch by running the following script: `trigger:staging:deploy:patch`

### Production (MEP)

#### Hard deploy (when MEP wanted, manual)

- Know which version (and then tag) you want to deploy. If you patched a version Staging, it could be `patch/v1.X.Y`

- `yarn trigger:production:deploy <tag>`

This will create a tag `prod-hard-deploy`. CircleCI will detect the tag and launch the lane `deploy-android-production-hard` & `deploy-ios-production-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file)

### Hotfix

#### When

⚠️ Only if there is a bug really urgent in production, that we need to fix very quickly.
If not urgent, it is better to release a new version.

#### How

- List all tags of the version `X.X.X`, tags of type: `vX.X.X-Y` (`git fetch --tag`and then `git tag`)
- Checkout on the tag with the biggest Y (if no tag with Y, checkout on `vX.X.X`)
- Cherry-pick all the commits of the feature `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>`
- ⚠️ do not update package.json version number for a code push (the code push targets only one version)
- check if tests are OK `yarn test`
- `git tag vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git tag hotfix-staging-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git push origin hotfix-staging-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`: this will deploy it to `staging`
- `git push origin vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- Validate the fix with the PO on staging app (version X.X.X)
- If it is OK for the PO, deploy it to production:
- `git tag hotfix-production-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git push origin hotfix-production-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`: this will deploy it to `production`
- ⚠️ check your code push targets the actual production version (one code push targets only one version)
- ⚠️ Do not forget to create a pull request from your branch to `master` to retrieve fixes on master branch

#### Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>I don't see my CodePush on staging/prod app</summary>
  
Check if you can find it on AppCenter. Example for [staging iOS][8].

![img](./CodePushOnAppCenter.png)

</details>

[1]: https://www.notion.so/passcultureapp/Processus-d-ploiement-MES-MEP-App-Native-bc75cbf31d6146ee88c8c031eb14b655
[2]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-testing-ios
[3]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-testing-android
[4]: hyperurl.co/pc-testing
[5]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-staging-ios
[6]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-staging-android
[7]: hyperurl.co/pc-staging
[8]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/PassCulture-staging-ios/distribute/code-push

Commit message:

doc(Patch): add warning that unit test must be run

doc/deployment/deployment.md, after:

## ⚙️ Deployment process

See [notion documentation][1] for more information.

We use 3 environments for the mobile application: `testing` > `staging` > `production`.

There are two types of deployments: **soft** and **hard**:

- a **soft** deployment is for most of the time, when only the javascript code has changed
- a **hard** deployment is required if the native code has changed:
  - environment variable changed or new
  - new native library
  - new build step
  - ...

### Testing

You can review & download the **testing** apps on Appcenter for [iOS][2] & [Android][3] of using this [url][4].

#### ⚡️ Soft deploy (automatic)

Most of the time, when developing a feature, you probably didn't change the native code: if you changed only javascript code, the deployment to the testing application will be **automatic** on CircleCI (see `deploy-soft-testing` job).

Then the build is faster as only the javascript code is published. The download and installation of the modification will be automatic when you open the app.

##### Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>I don't see my changes on testing</summary>

If you don't see your changes, try to check if the codepush was correctly downloaded. To do so go to "CheatCodes", and click on the "check update" button.

3 possibilities:

- it displays "no update found": you are up-to-date
- it shows "New version available on AppCenter" you need to go to http://hyperurl.co/pc-testing
- it downloads the update and restart the app
</details>

#### Hard deploy (manual)

If I modified native code, I need to hard deploy:

- `yarn trigger:testing:deploy:patch`

This will bump the patch number, create a tag `testing/vX.X.X+1` and push it.
CircleCI will detect the tag and launch the lanes `deploy-android-testing-hard` & `deploy-ios-testing-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file).

### Staging (MES)

You can review & download the **staging** apps on AppCenter for [iOS][5] & [Android][6] of using this [url][7].

#### Hard deploy (once a week, manual)

When you want to deploy the current version of `master` in staging, you can run the following commands:

- `yarn trigger:staging:deploy`

This will bump the `minor` version, create a tag `vX.X+1.X` and push it.

- or `trigger:staging:deploy:patch`

This will bump the `patch` version, create a tag `patch/vX.X.X+1` and push it.
CircleCI will detect the tag `patch/vX.X.X` and launch the lanes `deploy-ios-staging-hard` & `deploy-android-staging-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file)

#### Patch staging with additionnal commits

Pull master to make sure you have all the commits you need to patch.
Checkout the tag you want to start from.

- `git checkout vX.X.X`
- list all commits you want to patch to your tag.
- run `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>` for all commits **in the order they were merged to `master`** to avoid conflicts.
- ⚠ Run the test prior tagging the version as they won't be run by the CI : `yarn test` ⚠
- build and deploy the patch by running the following script: `trigger:staging:deploy:patch`

### Production (MEP)

#### Hard deploy (when MEP wanted, manual)

- Know which version (and then tag) you want to deploy. If you patched a version Staging, it could be `patch/v1.X.Y`

- `yarn trigger:production:deploy <tag>`

This will create a tag `prod-hard-deploy`. CircleCI will detect the tag and launch the lane `deploy-android-production-hard` & `deploy-ios-production-hard` (see `.circleci/config.yml` file)

### Hotfix

#### When

⚠️ Only if there is a bug really urgent in production, that we need to fix very quickly.
If not urgent, it is better to release a new version.

#### How

- List all tags of the version `X.X.X`, tags of type: `vX.X.X-Y` (`git fetch --tag`and then `git tag`)
- Checkout on the tag with the biggest Y (if no tag with Y, checkout on `vX.X.X`)
- Cherry-pick all the commits of the feature `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>`
- ⚠️ do not update package.json version number for a code push (the code push targets only one version)
- check if tests are OK `yarn test`
- `git tag vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git tag hotfix-staging-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git push origin hotfix-staging-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`: this will deploy it to `staging`
- `git push origin vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- Validate the fix with the PO on staging app (version X.X.X)
- If it is OK for the PO, deploy it to production:
- `git tag hotfix-production-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`
- `git push origin hotfix-production-vX.X.X-(Y+1)`: this will deploy it to `production`
- ⚠️ check your code push targets the actual production version (one code push targets only one version)
- ⚠️ Do not forget to create a pull request from your branch to `master` to retrieve fixes on master branch

#### Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>I don't see my CodePush on staging/prod app</summary>
  
Check if you can find it on AppCenter. Example for [staging iOS][8].

![img](./CodePushOnAppCenter.png)

</details>

[1]: https://www.notion.so/passcultureapp/Processus-d-ploiement-MES-MEP-App-Native-bc75cbf31d6146ee88c8c031eb14b655
[2]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-testing-ios
[3]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-testing-android
[4]: hyperurl.co/pc-testing
[5]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-staging-ios
[6]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/passculture-staging-android
[7]: hyperurl.co/pc-staging
[8]: https://appcenter.ms/orgs/pass-Culture/apps/PassCulture-staging-ios/distribute/code-push
